book 1 - prologue
“The love of men is a frigid thing, a mountain stream only three steps from the ice. We are his.
Oh Stormfather…we are his. It is but a thousand days, and the Everstorm comes.”
—Collected on the first day of the week Palah of the month Shash of the year 1171, thirty-one
seconds before death. Subject was a darkeyed pregnant woman of middle years. The child did not
survive.

chapter 1
“You’ve killed me. Bastards, you’ve killed me! While the sun is still hot, I die!”
—Collected on the fifth day of the week Chach of the month Betab of the year 1171, ten seconds
before death. Subject was a darkeyed soldier thirty-one years of age. Sample is considered
questionable.

chapet 2
“Ten orders. We were loved, once. Why have you forsaken us, Almighty! Shard of my soul, where
have you gone?”
—Collected on the second day of Kakash, year 1171, five seconds before death. Subject was a
lighteyed woman in her third decade.

chapter 3
“A man stood on a cliffside and watched his homeland fall into dust. The waters surged beneath,
so far beneath. And he heard a child crying. They were his own tears.”
—Collected on the 4th of Tanates, year 1171, thirty seconds before death. Subject was a cobbler of
some renown.

chapter 4
“I’m dying, aren’t I? Healer, why do you take my blood? Who is that beside you, with his head of
lines? I can see a distant sun, dark and cold, shining in a black sky.”
—Collected on the 3rd of Jesnan, 1172, 11 seconds pre-death. Subject was a Reshi chull trainer.
Sample is of particular note.

chapter 5
“I have seen the end, and have heard it named. The Night of Sorrows, the True Desolation. The
Everstorm.”
—Collected on the 1st of Nanes, 1172, 15 seconds pre-death. Subject was a darkeyed youth of
unknown origin.

chapter 6
“I’m cold. Mother, I’m cold. Mother? Why can I still hear the rain? Will it stop?”
—Collected on Vevishes, 1172, 32 seconds pre-death. Subject was a lighteyed female child,
approximately six years old.

chapter 7
“They are aflame. They burn. They bring the darkness when they come, and so all you can see is
that their skin is aflame. Burn, burn, burn….”
—Collected on Palahishev, 1172, 21 seconds pre-death. Subject was a baker’s apprentice.

chapter 8
“Victory! We stand atop the mount! We scatter them before us! Their homes become our dens,
their lands are now our farms! And they shall burn, as we once did, in a place that is hollow and
forlorn.”
—Collected on Ishashan, 1172, 18 seconds pre-death. Subject was a lighteyed spinster of the eighth
dahn.

chapter 9
“Ten people, with Shardblades alight, standing before a wall of black and white and red.”
—Collected: Jesachev, 1173, 12 seconds pre-death. Subject: one of our own ardents, overheard
during his last moments.

chapter 11
“Three of sixteen ruled, but now the Broken One reigns.”
—Collected: Chachanan, 1173, 84 seconds pre-death. Subject: a cutpurse with the wasting sickness,
of partial Iriali descent.

chapter 12:
Old friend, I hope this missive finds you well. Though, as you are now essentially immortal, I
would guess that wellness on your part is something of a given.

chapter 13:
I realize that you are probably still angry. That is pleasant to know. Much as your perpetual
health, I have come to rely upon your dissatisfaction with me. It is one of the cosmere’s great
constants, I should think.

chapter 14:
Let me first assure you that the element is quite safe. I have found a good home for it. I protect its
safety like I protect my own skin, you might say.

chapter 15:
You do not agree with my quest. I understand that, so much as it is possible to understand
someone with whom I disagree so completely.

chapter 16:
kaladin 9 years ago

chapter 17:
Might I be quite frank? Before, you asked why I was so concerned. It is for the following reason:

one of bridgemen's ramblings before he died:
Gadol spit up blood, coughing. “They break the land itself!” he hissed, eyes wild. “They want it, but
in their rage they will destroy it. Like the jealous man burns his rich things rather than let them be taken by
his enemies! They come!”
	
chapter 18:
Ati was once a kind and generous man, and you saw what became of him. Rayse, on the other
hand, was among the most loathsome, crafty, and dangerous individuals I had ever met.

chapter 19:
He holds the most frightening and terrible of all of the Shards. Ponder on that for a time, you old
reptile, and tell me if your insistence on nonintervention holds firm. Because I assure you, Rayse
will not be similarly inhibited.

chapter 20:
kaladin 7 and half years aggo

chapter 21:
One need only look at the aftermath of his brief visit to Sel to see proof of what I say.

chapter 22:
In case you have turned a blind eye to that disaster, know that Aona and Skai are both dead, and
that which they held has been Splintered. Presumably to prevent anyone from rising up to
challenge Rayse.

chapter 23:
You have accused me of arrogance in my quest. You have accused me of perpetuating my grudge
against Rayse and Bavadin. Both accusations are true.

chapter 24:
Neither point makes the things I have written to you here untrue.

chapter 25:
kaladin 7 years ago

chapter 26:
I am being chased. Your friends of the Seventeenth Shard, I suspect. I believe they’re still lost,

chapter 27:
If anything I have said makes a glimmer of sense to you, I trust that you’ll call them off. Or maybe
you could astound me and ask them to do something productive for once.
following a false trail I left for them. They’ll be happier that way. I doubt they have any inkling
what to do with me should they actually catch me.
“